Hermes Track
____________


Open source software for RFID mapping and tracking. Named after the God of Communication.

PURPOSE: To allow for easy access to and use of RFID hardware for data aquisition. Various examples are shown below of 
          utilizing RFID hardware wrappers for tracking people throughout an area, alerting someone when they forget to 
          do an action, or generating analytics from IoT data.


IMPLEMENTATION: This software and hardware pair allows users to map and track activity of a group of users and utilities across multiple areas.
By specifying the location of static (non-moving RFID readers) sensors, it is possible to locate the location of users with
RFID chips as they pass through the various sensors. The sensors are able to estimate the location of users during a given
time-slice, allowing for applications to be developed by utilizing the data. 

HARDWARE: The hardware employs a network of Raspberry pis for communcation and Arduinos to control the RFID readers. These sensors are all
static, and remain in the same location to give us a reference point to locate the mobile RFID chip users. When a user trips
one of the sensors, then the information is transfered back to a central Hub that processes the incoming data and determines
updated locations for all RFID chips in the system.

SOFTWARE: The software system is meant to act as a processing system and resource for applications to use RFID tracking technology.
After the data is processes and the locations of all of the RFID chips are estimated, this data is uploaded to a database for
persitent storage. A time stamp associated with each system snapshot can be used to track people or objects as they move.
There is then an API that lets users access the data for data analysis, decision analytics, and general
purpose tracking.


RFID TRACKING SYSTEM

Hardware
*         The sensor system is implemented using arduino controlled rfid sensors. See Arduino_RFID_Setup.pdf for specifics on 
          how to setup for use and connecting to Raspberry pis.

*         The tracking system is implemented using Rspbeery Pis for the analysis and communication between RFID nodes. There
          are two types of Raspberry Pi nodes: the nodes and the hub. 
          *         The nodes house the sensor and communicate through sockets
          with the Hub Pi by sending a 64 bit signal everytime it is tripped. The Hub is the main processor for the system. It 
          runs an loop that takes incoming messages and determines where in different areas the mobile RFID's are. 
          *         The Hub also manages the cloud database by fetching and pushing data to it. (SEE RASPBERRY_PI_SOFTWARE 
          FOR ALL OF THE SOFTWARE NEEDED ON THE RASPBERRY PIS)
          
Software
*         The Raspberry_Pi_Software will need to be loaded onto the pis specified above. See the Setup_Pis.pdf inside for more
          details. This includes the RFID sensor software, the data processing software, and the database interface software.
*         Matlab_Data_Analytic_Software contains a matlab library that takes in the data from the database and allows for the 
          creation of graphs, data analytic equations, and timeseries tracking.
*         A simple demo was created to show real time tracking of people. This demo is located in the DEMO folder. 


Thank you for reading this README written after a few days of restlessness.
